         CNS 1250 Lab I: Using MinGW
Introduction
In this lab, you will be required to create a C++ application, then compile it and execute it. You will also submit your program for grading using WebCT. You may do this assignment in the CNS Computer Labs or at home. The CNS Computer labs are located on the 6th floor of the Computer Science and Engineering building. The Programming labs are in CS 615, CS 615b, and CS 621. Tutors are available at various times in CS 615 (except for summer semester). Their hours are posted in the lab. If you want to work on programming assignments at home, you should obtain and install the free minGW Development Studio. Copies of the compiler and a free development environment are available on CD from the CNS department office.

Instructions for downloading and using the Integrated Development Environment on the CD are located here. I strongly recommend that you do the first few labs on the computers in one of the CNS Computer labs. Don't let yourself get behind by waiting to install the compiler at home. If you have another compiler you may use it for these assignments, but the following rules apply: 

You are on your own. You can't expect me, the tutors, or the lab assistants to answer questions about other compilers. 
Your executables must run in the lab. It is your responsibility to make sure that your exectuable runs. If it does not, you will not receive full credit for your project.
Follow the instructions in this lab carefully. You will use this same procedure for every programming project that you do in this course, so learn how to do it correctly now! Future programs that are incorrectly compiled, or incorrectly submitted will not receive full credit when they are graded. There will be no exceptions.

Summary of Important Concepts
Using the text editor included in the minGW Development Studio, you will create your first C++ program. The code that you create is called source code. When you create your source code file, you will save it with the file extension .cpp. Source code contains statements written in the C++ language. The first step in creating any project should be to create a folder where you will store all of the files for that project. At home, you can store these files anywhere that you like. When you are set up with an account in the computer labs, you are given access to your own personal storage area on the system's H:\ drive. In the lab, you should create a folder for CNS 1250 on the H:\ drive or on a flash drive that you provide. Do not store your files on the C:\ drive of the lab computers. This is a public area and you may never see your files again. My recommendation is to store your files on a usb flash memory drive. This makes it easy to work on programs both at home and at school. When you have a question about your program, you can also bring it to me on the flash drive.

In order to create an executable file, you must compile your source code. We will be using the minGW C/C++ compiler that is included in the minGW Development Studio. The compiler is a port of the GNU compiler to Windows. The compiler creates a file with the file extension .o. This is called object code. The compiler converts your source code into object code. The object code contains instructions coded in the machine language of the computer that you are compiling the program on. In our case, this would be the machine language for an Intel Pentium class computer. 

An object file is not yet ready to execute. You have to first link the object file to libraries shipped with the compiler. Thus the linker takes an object file as its input, and it produces an executable file. Executable files have a file extension of .exe. When you run the program, the executable is loaded into the computer's memory and the computer starts executing the function named main( ). This process is illustrated below.

  
