CNS 1400 Object-oriented Programming I
Programming Project 7: Counter Class
Due Date:
Must be submitted no later than 11:59pm on Sunday. 

Programs received prior to 11:59 on Saturday will receive 5 bonus points, only if program completely meets the specifications and executes correctly. 

Objective:
At the completion of this project, you will have created an application that 

contains a simple class defintition 
creates an object of the class 
sends messages to the object and 
formats output and sends it to cout 
Project:



In this project you will create a class that models a simple mechanism used to count things. Your counter will only deal with integer values. The count cannot be negative. You should include the following functions in your Counter class: 

A function to add one to the current count. 
A function to subtract one from the current count. 
A function to reset the count to zero. 
A function that returns the current count. 
Do not write a constructor for this class. 

Write a main( ) function that uses this class 

Program:
Your program should work as follows: 

Display your student information 
Create a Counter object. 
Write a loop that: 
Prompts the use with the following menu: 
    1 - add 1 to Counter
    2 - subtract 1 from Counter
    3 - display contents of Counter
    4 - reset counter
    5 - exit program
 


Gets the user's input 
Tests to make sure that a valid option was chosen 
If an invalid option was selected, then bo back and prompt again. 
Otherwise perform the desired operation. 
Continue in this loop until the user picks the exit option. 
Format and document your code in accordance with the course style guidelines.  Include a file prologue identifying you as the author.  Submit your project using the instructions outlined in the Course Syllabus, Programming Projects section. 

File(s) to Submit:
counter.h 
counter.cpp 
driver.cpp 
project07.exe 
Your class diagram 
Hints
If you need some help writing the code for this project, there are some hints here. 

Grading
The grade sheet for this project is here 

Sample Output:
 
You can get an executable that runs correctly here! 
