CNS 1400 Object-oriented Programming I
Programming Project 6: Wind Chill Calculator
Due Date:
Must be submitted no later than 11:59pm on Sunday. 

Programs received prior to 11:59 on Saturday will receive 5 bonus points, only if program completely meets the specifications and executes correctly. 

Objective:
At the completion of this project, you will have created an application that 

gets input from a file, 
uses arithmetic expressions, assignment, and control structures, 
uses a programmer written function, and 
formats output and sends it to cout 
Project:
Meterologists report an index called the Wind Chill Factor to indicate the temperature, taking into account the chilling effect of the wind. Wind chill is approximated by the following formula: 
 
     W = 35.74 + 0.6215t - 35.75 (v0.16) + 0.4275t(v0.16) 

where 
 
   v = wind speed in mph 
 
   t = temperature in degrees Fahrenheit 
 
   W = Wind chill index (in degrees Fahrenheit) 

The function
     double pow(double x, double y)
raises the value in x to the power y. 

Your program should work as follows: 

Display your student information 
Attempt to open the file. The filename, c:\\windData.txt, should be hardcoded into your program. Note the two slash characters in the file name. If the file cannot be opened, display a message and exit the program. 
From the file read a temperature and a wind speed. Both values should be stored in variables declared as double. The file is a text file. 
Calculate the wind chill factor using a programmer written function, and display the result in the form: 
 
For t = temperature from file
and v = wind speed from file
Wind chill index = calculated result degrees Fahrenheit. 
 

Repeat these steps until an end of file is encountered. 
Format and document your code in accordance with the course style guidelines.  Include a file prologue identifying you as the author.  Submit your project using the instructions outlined in the Course Syllabus, Programming Projects section. 

File(s) to Submit:
windchill.cpp 
windchill.exe 
Hints
If you need some help writing the code for this project, there are some hints here. 

Grading
When submitting your program print the grading sheet and attach it to a copy of your source code. Submit these to your instructor by the due date specified for this program. The grade sheet is here 

Sample Output:
 
You can get an executable that runs correctly here! 

You can get a sample data file here. 
