CNS 1400 Object-oriented Programming I
Programming Project 3: Rabbits, Rabbits, Rabbits

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due Date:
Must be submitted no later than 11:59pm on Sunday. Programs received prior to 11:59pm on Saturday will receive 5 bonus points only if the program completely meets the specifications and executes correctly. 

Objective:
At the completion of this project, you will have created an application that 

makes use of a UML Activity Diagram to describe the steps required to solve the problem 
uses a loop statement 
uses decision logic 
uses arithmetic expressions, assignment, and 
formats output and sends it to cout 
Project:
This is another problem solving project. Once you have figured out the steps required to solve the problem, writing the code should be pretty easy. As you did in the last project, 

Write down everything that you know about the problem 
Write down what it is that your program needs to compute 
Write down any formulas or equations that you might find useful in step (2) 
create a UML Activity Diagram, as demonstrated in lab #3. Then use the activity diagram as the basis for writing the code that you submit. 
Suppose that a scientist is doing some important work that requires her to use rabbits in her experiments. She starts out with one pair of baby rabbits (a male and a female). At the end of each month, a pair of rabbits produces one pair of offspring (a male and a female). The scientist has 500 cages in which to hold her rabbits. Each cage holds one pair of rabbits. Assuming that no rabbits ever die, when will she run out of cages? 

Your program must do the following: 

Print out your student information. 
Print a table that contains the following information for a period of fifteen months. 
The number of months that have passed. 
The number adult rabbits (those over 1 month old). 
The number of baby rabbits produced this month. 
The total number of rabbit pairs in the lab. 
Print out how many months it will take until the number of rabbits exceeds the number of available cages. 
Format and document your code in accordance with the course style guidelines.  Include a file prologue identifying you as the author.  Also include an electronic version of you Activity Diagram. Diagrams may be done in Word, or scanned in and sent as an image file. Submit your project using the instructions outlined in the Course Syllabus, Programming Projects section. 

File(s) to Submit:
rabbits.cpp 
rabbits.exe 
UML diagram 
Hints
If you need help solving this problem, you can find some hints here. 

Grading
The grade sheet for this program is here 

Sample Output:
 
You can get an executable that runs correctly here! 
